---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/major-history/age-of-god-and-man/"}
---

## Links from this page
[[Craftsman\|Craftsman]]
[[Pantheons/Elven Pantheon\|Elven Pantheon]]
[[Pantheons/Elven Pantheon/Faenivere\|Faenivere]]
[[Hessa\|Hessa]]
[[Pantheons/Elven Pantheon/Heth\|Heth]]
[[Pantheons/Elven Pantheon/Jeshe\|Jeshe]]
[[Pantheons/Elven Pantheon/Lairus\|Lairus]]
[[Races/Snow Elf\|Snow Elf]]
[[Pantheons/Elven Pantheon/Sot\|Sot]]
[[Spiriter\|Spiriter]]
[[Pantheons/Elven Pantheon/Vin\|Vin]]
## Overview
The early history of [[Hessa\|Hessa]], called by scholars as the Age of God and Man, is greatly metaphorical in nature, acting as stories to hone the beliefs of the inhabiting races of [[Hessa\|Hessa]] and serve as a baseline for religious beliefs throughout the commonwealth. 
### The Elves
In the beginning of [[Hessa\|Hessan]] history, it is said that the god of the elves, [[Pantheons/Elven Pantheon/Faenivere\|Faenivere]], created the [[Races/Snow Elf\|elves]] from snow, ice, and air. [[Pantheons/Elven Pantheon/Faenivere\|Faenivere]] then rested, calling upon the [[Races/Snow Elf\|elves]] that they created to eat and grow and sleep. The [[Races/Snow Elf\|elves]] formed tribes and began to grow together, battling against the harshness of the wilderness. They created tools to build their homes and fire to warm their hearths, but when the [[Hessa\|Hessan]] nights grew long and cold, the [[Races/Snow Elf\|elves]] grew weary and weak, unsure of their connection to their god and unsure of how to survive the hostilities of nature. They praised [[Pantheons/Elven Pantheon/Faenivere\|Faenivere]] and cried out for guidance, asking that they be shown how to protect their tribes and their people. When [[Pantheons/Elven Pantheon/Faenivere\|Faenivere]] emerged from their slumber, they saw the state of the [[Races/Snow Elf\|elves]] and wept. From their tears grew [[Pantheons/Elven Pantheon\|the other gods]]. These [[Pantheons/Elven Pantheon\|gods]] aided the [[Races/Snow Elf\|elves]] of [[Hessa\|Hessa]], strengthening their skills and resolve. After this, [[Pantheons/Elven Pantheon/Faenivere\|Faenivere]] returned to sleep. Instilled with aspiration from the advent of [[Pantheons/Elven Pantheon\|gods]] and ideals to strive for, the [[Races/Snow Elf\|elves]] became strong, developing writing, math, and a culture of hard work and enduring fortitude. The elves innovated, celebrating their [[Pantheons/Elven Pantheon\|gods]] with fervor and love. They learned agriculture from [[Pantheons/Elven Pantheon/Vin\|Vin]], praised [[Pantheons/Elven Pantheon/Heth\|Heth]] for their health and strength, studied alongside [[Pantheons/Elven Pantheon/Jeshe\|Jeshe]], praised [[Pantheons/Elven Pantheon/Sot\|Sot]] for favorable weather, and learned magic from [[Pantheons/Elven Pantheon/Lairus\|Lairus]].
### The Dwarves
During this time, [[Races/Deep Dwarf\|dwarves]] were being forged from stone in the depths of [[Hessa\|Hessa]]. The [[Craftsman\|Craftsman]] deep in the Earth’s womb built a great number of [[Races/Deep Dwarf\|dwarves]] to push forth and create wondrous cities of stone deep beneath the surface. The bodies of the dwarves, fashioned from stone, were cold and hard, but were capable of receiving life and the power of thought from the [[Spiriter\|Spiriter]], a great figure who could give souls to their bodies. The [[Races/Deep Dwarf\|dwarves]] crafted a culture of stoic kindness, honing their minds into fortresses capable of great forgiveness and compassion, and the [[Observer\|Observer]] watched in great interest. The [[Races/Deep Dwarf\|dwarves]] explored their subterranean habitat, finding various wonders and harvesting the bounties of the below. Wishing to please the great [[Craftsman\|Craftsman]], the [[Races/Deep Dwarf\|dwarves]] brought their treasures to him. Looking upon his creation, the [[Craftsman\|Craftsman]] smiled. He took the treasures of the [[Races/Deep Dwarf\|dwarves]] and thought it would be right that they could be more. The [[Craftsman\|Craftsman]] took the [[Races/Deep Dwarf\|dwarves]] and granted them the gift of life, allowing them to reproduce and accomplish great projects. The [[Races/Deep Dwarf\|dwarves]] went forth and created sprawling cities and wondrous artifacts with powerful enchantments in the depths of the world.