---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/rules-of-magic/models/","tags":["Rules-of-Magic"],"dg-note-properties":{"tags":["Rules-of-Magic"]}}
---

## Overview
Magical effects arise in hundreds of different ways throughout [[Hessa/Hessa\|Hessa]]. Intelligent humanoids and creatures alike have advanced in magic through study of the world in and around themselves. In their most basic form, spells begin from a simple knowledge of how the world works. People and creatures who are able to cast spells must have some sort of intuitive understanding of how an effect or phenomenon might manifest, called a model. Models are often personal and unique between casters; however, individuals who learn spells in similar situations might have similar models and fundamental understandings. Once a model is formed, it typically means that an individual is able to attempt to learn a spell. It often takes experimentation and practice to be able to envision a spell from a model and cast it consistently.
### Example 1
For example, a spellcaster who is capable of casting *burning hands* has at least a basic understanding of how fire creates heat. Their understanding that fire can burn is called a model. Simply knowing that fire creates heat, however, does not mean the spellcaster is entitled to being able to cast *burning hands*; learning the spell requires training and practice of some sort typically through a moment of [[Rules of Magic/Insight\|insight]] or a [[Study\|studied understanding]] of a spell. 
### Example 2
An additional example: a spellcaster capable of casting *darkness* might have the understanding that places become dark because they lack light. Once again, this understanding alone does not mean that the spellcaster knows how to cast the spell; practice, [[Study\|study]], and [[Rules of Magic/Insight\|intuitive breakthroughs]] might be necessary to be able to learn the spell and be able to cast it consistently.
## Conclusions
In short, a model is a personal, flexible understanding of a phenomenon that is often easy to understand. In order to learn a spell, a model must first be made to represent that phenomenon in the mind of a caster. After a model has been created, it is possible to learn a spell.