---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/factions/aberrant-sisters/"}
---

## Links from this page
[[Hessa\|Hessa]]
[[Spells and Magic/Insight\|Insight]]
[[Sisters of Disease\|Sisters of Disease]]
[[Sisters of the Flame\|Sisters of the Flame]]
[[Sisters of the Spirit\|Sisters of the Spirit]]
[[Sisters of the Wild\|Sisters of the Wild]]
[[Sisters of Winter\|Sisters of Winter]]
## Overview
The Aberrant Sisters are a group of unschooled witches and druids throughout [[Hessa\|Hessa]] set on fragmenting civilization, bringing suffering, and using magical power to rule over others. Sisters form organized tribes each with their own unique subcultures which they then use to wreak havoc on unassuming and unprotected farms and towns. Every Sister cares first for herself and then for her tribe. Sisters have a few goals, including creating new spells, pillaging undefended towns for resources, defending their tribes, gaining more power internally, and indoctrinating new members. As inexperienced spellcasters, Sisters are uneducated in how magic functions mechanically. Instead, Sisters learn all of their spells through [[Spells and Magic/Insight\|insight]]. Oftentimes, spells are learned through dangerous and frightening ritualistic events. Helpless captives and fellow Sisters are forced to do inhumane and mentally scarring rites that subject their minds to an onslaught of horrifying imagery that bends their psyches into learning terrifying and sickening spells built on the foundations of suffering. Rituals often involve hours or even days of physical and emotional torment and torture, forcing a victim to either learn a spell or die a terrible and humiliating death. The unlucky few who learn spells are initiated into the tribes of the Aberrant Sisters, their minds beaten into the mold of their captors, forcing them into a traumatizing and sick life of invoking suffering on others, pillaging and destroying. Particularly cruel sisters will try to inflict as much harm unto others as possible, hoping to learn new spells in the process and gain more power over others. Particularly strong spellcasting Sisters might resolve to leave their tribes to form new tribes of their own. Alternatively, they might simply kill each other and let the strongest Sister come to power.
## Tactics and Ideals
Sisters use their terrifying and horrible powers as spellcasters to inflict pain unto others, pillaging small towns and farms. Sisters make an effort to attack a village quickly, taking where they are able and destroying where they aren’t. Fire is frequently used in Sister attacks, forcing citizens into the streets where they can then be slaughtered or quickly abducted for use in rituals and traumatizing acts of depravity. Once an attack is finished, Sisters will steal food, weapons, and anything useful or powerful. If Sisters become outnumbered or otherwise outmaneuvered during attacks, they will attempt to take hostages or simply escape as quickly as possible. Villages attacked by Sisters are often chipped at piece by piece, slowly losing important people, fighters, and resources over the course of many lethal and tiring skirmishes. After a Sister attack, if a village fails to gain proper support or raise some protection, morale will quickly fail and lead to internal crumbling. Sister attacks on civilization are typically rare unless it is certain that Sisters would be able to survive and succeed in gaining some sort of benefit. Sisters who are more powerful than others often spend time devising and performing sick rituals to aid in spell acquisition. Sisters, despite not properly understanding the mechanics of magic, have learned that spells can be learned through [[Spells and Magic/Insight\|insight]] via impactful emotional events. As such, powerful Sisters have evolved methods to create scarring rituals that prey on the fears of captives and leverage them into fuel to mold their pliable minds. Once a hostage is captured, disarmed, and properly humiliated, Sisters begin a process to wear down the mental fortitude of the captured individual. Sisters take turns inflicting injury on a captive all the while sowing seeds of doubt in the minds of captives, ruining morale and preparing a captive for indoctrination. Torture, starvation, and various forms of abuse take place, prying open the captive’s mind and preparing a captive for a ritual. These rituals induce extreme stress in a captive, and often throw weaker-minded captives into a state of total emotional breakdown. After a ritual, survivors are collected. Sisters take advantage of the emotional turmoil induced by the rituals to convince survivors that nobody aside from the tribe cares for them. Sisters affirm to survivors that they are strong as evidence of their survival, and should use their strength to rule over others. This process of inducting new members often takes multiple years of social manipulation, but, after all is done, the tribe gains a new Sister to use to bring pain and suffering upon the world. 
## Tribes
[[Sisters of the Flame\|Sisters of the Flame]]: A tribe of Sisters obsessed with fire and the consumption of burning.
[[Sisters of the Spirit\|Sisters of the Spirit]]: A tribe of Sisters who bind the souls of others to their service and torments people past their lifetime.
[[Sisters of Winter\|Sisters of Winter]]: A tribe of Sisters fanatically interested in snow, ice, and cold.
[[Sisters of the Wild\|Sisters of the Wild]]: A tribe of Sisters deeply in tune with the carnal and primal urges and forces of nature.
[[Sisters of Disease\|Sisters of Disease]]: A tribe of Sisters with an obsession regarding disease and the body's reactions to them.