---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/factions/sanctified-exarchs/"}
---

## Links from this page
[[Hessa\|Hessa]]
## Overview
The Sanctified Exarchs are a group of arcane exorcists and divine researchers set on rooting out monstrous threats, fiendish influence, demonic study, undead creatures, and more. The Exarchs spend large amounts of resources traveling throughout [[Hessa\|Hessa]] and attempting to resolve conflicts pertaining to otherworldly horrors and dangers. Additionally, many of their resources are invested into training soldiers and collecting new members to help support their cause. 

The Exarchs do not form a necessarily morally good group despite their apparently noble goals. Many of their decisions are heartless and dangerously self-serving. Many high-ranking Exarch leaders believe that, no matter their current actions, the ends of purifying the world justify the means in doing so, creating situations in which the ones furthest from the battle make informed, yet difficult decisions based on the lives of their soldiers and subjects. Low standing soldiers are often seen as disposable, with soldiers who die in the line of duty being seen as valiant sacrifices who simply reached their physical and mental limits. Soldier deaths are often respected, but largely uncelebrated, creating a powerful driving force of selfless servitude that pushes soldiers towards either growth or death: whichever comes first. Individuals who serve the Exarchs often fall into one or more of the following seven specializations: Missionaries, Bishops, Researchers, Theologians, Soldiers, Diviners, and Providers. The categories of the Exarchs are often seen as specializations of what type of service you are able to perform. Most Exarchs only have one specialization, but higher ranking ones will have at least two and sometimes three. Every category requires a test of some sort in order to complete, often making it very difficult to achieve many specializations.
## Specializations
### Bishops
Although most of the specializations directly correlate to a talent or set of skills of some sort, the Bishop category is slightly different in that it gauges how skilled you are at leading others as well as how your individual ideals and actions align with the beliefs of the group as a whole. Exarchs without a Bishop certification are often referred to as unranked, as they have no formal ranking in the eyes of the group; however, sometimes commanding Bishops will grant unranked Exarchs with titles such as Deacon or Priest depending on the value of their service. These rankings give limited power to unranked troops, but the titles themselves are inconsequential compared to the Bishop rank and higher. In order to meaningfully rise in the chain of command in the Exarchs, it is necessary to receive Bishop certification as it allows you to command large groups of skilled soldiers. The Bishop certification is also sometimes augmented with additional exams to see how you rank amongst other Bishops. If you succeed on your Bishop certification and choose to attempt to move higher in the chain of command, you will be allowed to take your Archbishop exam, Cardinal exam, and finally the Exarch Head exam. These rankings form the backbone for the chain of command, with the Head Exarch commanding the Cardinal, the Cardinal commanding the Archbishop, the Archbishop commanding Bishop, and the Bishop commanding appointed Deacons, Priests, and other unranked troops.
### Missionaries
Many low-ranking individuals who serve the Exarchs are not so willing as is normally true for typical recruits. Oftentimes, Bishops will send parties of Missionaries into towns to collect new Exarchs. Missionaries are taught many things, but one of the most important skills they are taught is how to swindle and lie. Missionaries seek out poor families and overzealous young men and charm them with promises of glory, fortune, knowledge, and power. They weaponize manipulative recruiting tactics to seduce men into service, then reassure them of their foolhardy decisions as they commit to a lifetime of dangerous, life-threatening combat duty. Recruits are notably unable to reverse their decisions for fear of losing everything they own, and those who fail to meet their service contracts are promptly hunted and sent to work as Providers at Exarch facilities until their debts are paid. 

Missionaries also have a duty to, in rare cases, provide resources for Exarch groups in situations in which gaining supplies would be difficult. As such, many Missionaries have taken to maintaining supply lines with merchant groups or intimidating civilians into providing food for their growing armies, allowing the Exarchs to train their soldiers and maintain their occupation in various tactical positions across [[Hessa\|Hessa]]. Missionaries are seen as the mouth of the Exarchs, providing social connections that allow for growth and communication with people outside of the group. Through use of underhanded tactics, the Exarchs have grown rapidly in their military force and influence. Although this is a feat impressive to most, many still see the Exarchs and their recruiting processes for how they truly are: scheming manipulators that steal the lives of young adults. 
### Researchers and Theologians
With all this being said, however, the Exarchs do provide great opportunities for desperate, but willing individuals, granting education, status, and work for men and women who need it most. Ones who show great intellectual or spiritual aptitude are often trained to be Researchers or Theologians respectively. Researchers are wizards and students of arcane knowledge who serve to uncover magical secrets, interpret recovered items, analyze mystical curses, improve incantations, and study areas of great magical importance. Researchers have lots of variety in their work, and, as such, many Researchers are overworked heavily as they are forced to dip into many different disciplines. Theologians have a similar role; however, their work is entirely spiritual. As such, Theologians study spells obtained from outer planes and influencing forces. They write religious texts that help contextualize and define elusive and ill-described religious works so that other Exarchs might understand. Theologians also serve as librarians and professors, storing and teaching knowledge as they are commanded by Bishops. Theologians also assist Researchers with their work, oftentimes being able to provide religious insight into spell constructions, artifacts, and history. Both Researchers and Theologians serve as the brain of the Exarchs, supporting the group by interpreting knowledge and storing information for later use.
### Diviners
Recruits who are skilled with magic and gifted with clairvoyant and prophetic abilities are often trained to become Diviners. Diviners serve a very particular role for the Exarchs; Diviners with keen senses are used to pinpoint the locations of evil magics, unnatural creatures, undead abominations, portals to other planes, otherworldly rituals, demonically affiliated individuals, and more. They provide the Exarchs with the ability to respond to dangerous external powers quickly and efficiently, recognizing otherworldly enemies and utilizing communication spells to spread word of dangers so that they might be eliminated. Diviners are more rare among the Exarchs, but their role is absolutely crucial in allowing the group to respond and take action. By providing critical information, Diviners are often seen as the eyes of the Exarchs, allowing for quick and speedy action through knowledge.
### Soldiers
Recruits who are better suited for strength and weapon mastery are often trained as Soldiers. Soldiers are, by name, the enforcers of the will of the Exarchs. They are the true blood, bones, and flesh of the group, flushing out evil where it is found and training to become harbingers of devastation. Good soldiers often come from combat backgrounds before they are recruited, but lower ranking, previously unskilled men are quickly taught basic combat with one or two weapons of their choosing. This combat training is heavily influenced by the instructor, and combat curricula is often grueling, fast paced, and dangerous. Those who are successful throughout their training often leave feeling scarred, harboring both respect and hatred for their instructors. After basic combat training, Soldiers are funneled into advanced combat training and magic technique courses which further hone their combat capabilities and create opportunity for them to pursue magical combat means. These techniques are what separate Exarch warriors from trained soldiers from other factions, providing them with a trump card and magical upper hand. High rank soldiers will often attempt to create their own techniques, and sometimes these techniques are taught to others under their command. Learning techniques like this often requires great sacrifice and dedication, often requiring Soldiers to study published textbooks, hone their strength and balance, and maintain a collected state of mind in combat situations.
### Providers
Recruits who do not seem to fit in any of the other groups become Providers. Providers cover a great deal of skills for the Exarchs and provide services such as maintaining trade, armament crafting, equipment maintenance, sanitation of facilities, production of food, raising of war animals, construction of facilities, and much more. Anybody who serves in these ways act as Providers, allowing the Exarchs to continue their operations without disruption. Additionally, Providers sometimes work alongside Missionaries to maintain public image. They often work together to find work through word-of-mouth, and they negotiate contracts with towns in which they send men to deal with monsters at an expense. Additionally, during war times, Providers will make contact with fighting forces and negotiate contracts in which the Exarchs might fight as mercenaries. Providers do a great deal of book balancing, making sure that the Exarchs are receiving enough money to continue their work and train their men.