---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/hessa/civilization/glacier-s-hold/","tags":["Civilization","Hessa"],"dg-note-properties":{"tags":["Civilization","Hessa"]}}
---

## Overview
Glacier's Hold is the most heavily defensible point in all of [[Hessa/Hessa\|Hessa]]. Built standing on the [[Cliffs of Canterra\|Cliffs of Canterra]], Glacier's Hold was originally built centuries ago as a fortress to hold enemies of the commonwealth, store artifacts of great power, and maintain accounts of unethical research and forbidden spells. Typically, when someone breaks laws in [[Hessa/Hessa\|Hessa]], they are tried as per local laws and serve time in their [[Deprecated/Provinces\|province]]’s prisons. Particularly difficult criminals are exiled from the [[Deprecated/Provinces\|province]] in which the crime was committed, effectively banning them from any cities and towns in the area. Truly terrible criminals are often exiled from multiple [[Deprecated/Provinces\|provinces]] across the commonwealth and are sometimes sentenced to time in Glacier's Hold maximum security prisons. The prisons in Glacier's Hold are not meant for rehabilitation and are instead meant strictly as punishment. About 22% of all inmates sentenced to time in a prison in Glacier's Hold die before the end of their sentence. Glacier's Hold, although clearly within the jurisdiction of the [[Deprecated/Provinces\|province]] of [[Hessa/Regions/Frostmar\|Frostmar]], sometimes acts as its own pseudo-province with citizens exiled from other districts often found living in the city. Citizens of Glacier's Hold often lead difficult lives, being unable to leave the city due to their exile from other districts and typically having fewer freedoms and stricter rules than other [[Hessa/Hessa\|Hessan]] civilians. Glacier's Hold stagnantly sits at about 14,000 inhabitants with over 11,000 of the inhabitants either being inmates, prison workers, banished from at least one district, or ex-prisoners.
## Resources
## Climate
## Points of Interest
